---
hide:
    - toc
description: Powers and functions of Authority
---

## Powers and functions of Authority

1. The Authority shall develop the policy, procedure and systems for issuing Aadhaar numbers to individuals and perform authentication thereof under this Act.
2. Without prejudice to sub-section (1), the powers and functions of the Authority, inter alia, include—
    1. specifying, by regulations, demographic information and biometric information required for enrolment and the processes for collection and verification thereof;
    2. collecting demographic information and biometric information from any individual seeking an Aadhaar number in such manner as may be specified by regulations;
    3. appointing of one or more entities to operate the Central Identities Data Repository;
    4. generating and assigning Aadhaar numbers to individuals;
    5. performing authentication of Aadhaar numbers;
    6. maintaining and updating the information of individuals in the Central Identities Data Repository in such manner as may be specified by regulations;
    7. omitting and deactivating of an Aadhaar number and information relating thereto in such manner as may be specified by regulations;
    8. specifying the manner of use of Aadhaar numbers for the purposes of providing or availing of various subsidies, benefits, services and other purposes for which Aadhaar numbers may be used;
    9. specifying, by regulations, the terms and conditions for appointment of Registrars, enrolling agencies and service providers and revocation of appointments thereof;
    10. establishing, operating and maintaining of the Central Identities Data Repository;
    11. sharing, in such manner as may be specified by regulations, the information of Aadhaar number holders, subject to the provisions of this Act;
    12. calling for information and records, conducting inspections, inquiries and audit of the operations for the purposes of this Act of the Central Identities Data Repository, Registrars, enrolling agencies and other agencies appointed under this Act;
    13. specifying, by regulations, various processes relating to data management, security protocols and other technology safeguards under this Act;
    14. specifying, by regulations, the conditions and procedures for issuance of new Aadhaar number to existing Aadhaar number holder;
    15. levying and collecting the fees or authorising the Registrars, enrolling agencies or other service providers to collect such fees for the services provided by them under this Act in such manner as may be specified by regulations;
    16. appointing such committees as may be necessary to assist the Authority in discharge of its functions for the purposes of this Act;
    17. promoting research and development for advancement in biometrics and related areas, including usage of Aadhaar numbers through appropriate mechanisms;
    18. evolving of, and specifying, by regulations, policies and practices for Registrars, enrolling agencies and other service providers;
    19. setting up facilitation centres and grievance redressal mechanism for redressal of grievances of individuals, Registrars, enrolling agencies and other service providers;
    20. such other powers and functions as may be prescribed.
3. The Authority may,—
    1. enter into Memorandum of Understanding or agreement, as the case may be, with the Central Government or State Governments or Union territories or other agencies for the purpose of performing any of the functions in relation to collecting, storing, securing or processing of information or delivery of Aadhaar numbers to individuals or performing authentication;
    2. by notification, appoint such number of Registrars, engage and authorise such agencies to collect, store, secure, process information or do authentication or perform such other functions in relation thereto, as may be necessary for the purposes of this Act.
4. The Authority may engage such consultants, advisors and other persons as may be required for efficient discharge of its functions under this Act on such allowances or remuneration and terms and conditions as may be specified by contract.
